<title="Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democratic Presidential Candidate, holds a media availability">
<date:"2016-09-29">
<CLINTON:> Before they cast their votes early or on November 8th. So we will continue to highlight the differences and talk about what we want to do that's going to make life better for the families of America. <CROSSTALK>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right here with the cameras.>
<CLINTON:> All right. And I'm sorry guys. I'm working on a feature.
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So you talk a lot about the middleclass, you have throughout the campaign, I'm hoping that you can help define it for me. And I'm thinking both, like, numerically, where is the -- in terms of policy, tax policy, where do you put the middleclass? And then, also philosophically, what is the middleclass to you, what does it mean?>
<CLINTON:> Well, the middleclass is the social and economic engine of our country. It is in so many ways a reflection of the success of the United States from the very beginning, to create greater economic opportunity for people willing to work for it. And it has been one of the premier historic accomplishments of our country going back decades, if not longer. And the middleclass is a hard-to-define economic target. The way I talk about it is to say, we know what the median income in America is. But if you're living in high-cost areas, if you have kids you're trying to educate and send to college, if you face healthcare costs that are beyond the average, staying in and progressing up in the middleclass takes more money in some parts of America than it does in <INAUDIBLE> so my pledge has been, that I will not raise taxes on the middleclass, and I have defined it as I will not raise taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year, because in high-cost places in America, that is a -- in many ways, a cut-off that makes sense. It's something that President Obama had adhered to. It's something my husband adhered to. Because when you look at the information and across the country, I mean, housing is so much more expensive in lots of places than other places. And you understand why we've set it at that. So, the middleclass is both real and aspirational, and I want to make sure that it remains strong and it gives people a sense of security and confidence and optimism about their futures. <CROSSTALK>
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Madam Secretary, how worried are you about third-party candidates in general, Gary Johnson in particular? Could he be a spoiler, and would he be qualified in your view to be president at all?>
<CLINTON:> Well, look, I am just going to keep running my campaign and do everything I can to encourage people to actually get out and vote. I think either Donald Trump or I will be the President of the United States. And so, people have to look carefully in making their decision about who to vote for, because it will be either him or me, and I am going to do everything I can to make sure it's me. <CROSSTALK> 
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Secretary Clinton, so Donald Trump today ->
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You've got a number of Republican endorsements, but polls show the Republican voters are still solid behind Trump - are still behind Trump solidly as Democrats are behind you. Are you disappointed you have not gotten as much Republican voters support?>
<CLINTON:> I am thrilled of the amount of Republican voter support I've gotten. I really am. And from people who understand the stakes in this election and are real thought leaders with a lot of experience, so the 50 national security professionals who came out and said they could not support Donald Trump some months ago, I think spoke volumes about his lack of fitness and qualifications for the job. Business leaders from Mike Bloomberg to Meg Whitman and so many others who understand what it will take to have a competitive economy that works for everybody, not just those at the top, they've been on the front lines. And we have an increasing number of people who actually been Republican office holders, one current one as you know, Congressman Hanna from New York, to then yesterday, senator -- former Senator Warner from Virginia, who I had the great honor of working with when he chaired the Armed Services Committee. So, I'm really honored and proud to have the level of support and the message that it sends by people who understand what the next president is going to be facing and have said Donald Trump should not be anywhere near the Oval Office. <CROSSTALK>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- your flight.>
<CLINTON:> Oh, is this your first flight?
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is my first flight. Yes.>
<CLINTON:> Welcome aboard.
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you very much. Very happy to be here. I appreciate it. Secretary Clinton, the Trump campaign is signalling that they are poised to get personal about your husband's past, about your past. How will you respond at the debates and what's your response today?>
<CLINTON:> He can run his campaign however he chooses. That's up to him. I'm going to keep talking about the stakes in this election. I'm going to keep talking about my agenda that will, I believe, increase growth, make it fairer, have it be lasting, deal with the real problems that families are confronting. What I want to do to keep America safe, and to provide the kind of steady, strong leadership that the country needs, and to bring people together, which is going to be one of the highest priorities that I will have when I'm fortunate enough to be elected president, if that's what turns out. So, you know, I'm not going to comment on how he runs his campaign. You'll be able to see, we have two more debates, what he says and what I say. <CROSSTALK>
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Actually, I wanted to ask you a few follow- up questions. (INAUDIBLE) go to Florida very late tonight, tomorrow, do you think that Donald Trump Cuba story resonates in particular in Florida? And you're not a huge fan of continuing the embargo, so like, who cares or he would have been (INAUDIBLE)>
<CLINTON:> Well, you know, look, we have laws in our country and the efforts that Trump was making to get into the Cuban markets with his business interests ahead of the laws of the United States, and the requirements that his businesses were operating under because of the sanction, shows that he put his personal and business interests ahead of the laws and the values and the policies of the United States of America. Now, I was a strong supporter of moving toward creating an opening with Cuba, when I was Secretary of State. I applauded President Obama's efforts, and I will continue those when I am president. But, Donald Trump knew what the law was and from everything we can tell by those investigative reporting that has been done, he deliberately wanted it. And why should it be surprising that somebody who is happy to give his tax returns to state agencies deciding whether he gets to have a casino but not with the American people? And, in fact, says it's smart not to pay taxes, while he at the same time criticizes and denigrates the United States of America. So, I think it's important for voters to see that this is someone who always puts himself first. And even in the Cuban-American community, there has been a change of opinion about what's the best way to bring freedom and democracy and human rights to Cuba, but there was also a very clear understanding of what our laws were and who they covered, which was clear, and unfortunately, it looks like he didn't pay attention to them, but why should we be surprised? <CROSSTALK>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Secretary Clinton?>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have your hand up?>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You simply want more women to run for and win office and high office, fill in the obligation when Trump brings up your husband's past to speak out against spouses indiscretions or past being brought into a campaign like this?>
<CLINTON:> No.
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Secretary Clinton?>
<UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One more right here.>
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Donald Trump today invoked your husband's impeachment as evidence that he says the Clintons are, quote, "distorted the past" and his presidency would be, quote, "be bright and very clean future." Wondering if you have any response to that comparison?>
<CLINTON:> No. Look, he can say whatever he wants to say, as we well know, we have seen it in real-time over the last many months, and I'm going to keep running my campaign talking about what I think the American people are interested in, talking about how we're going to make a difference in their lives. I love the event. I had with Senator Sanders yesterday in New Hampshire. I loved my college calculator. I hope you all will write about it again because that's what I think people are looking for. It's how can we get our government working for you. How can we help you deal with the everyday challenges you face, and you know, this amazing college calculator that our team put together will really provide good information. And I want you to understand that is in line with what I want to do more of in the government. We need to use technology more. We need to get information out. We need to have, you know, people be able to access easily information about government programs, or costs, or whatever it is that's on their minds. So, you know, that's what I'm going to be doing, I'm going to be talking about how we make college tuition free for under $125,000 per family and debt-free for everybody else. I think that -- I think that's what people care about.
<UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who's your favorite world leader?>
<CLINTON:> Oh! Let me think! Look, I like a lot of the world leaders. One of my favorites is Angela Merkel, because I think she's been an extraordinary strong leader during difficult times in Europe, which has obvious implications for the rest of the world. Particularly our country. You know, her leadership and steadiness on the Euro crisis and her bravery in the face of the refugee crisis is something that I am impressed by, I've known her for a long time, she and I have known each other back in the 1990s, I spent a lot of time with her, and I hope I have the opportunity to work with her in the future, but we can talk about lots of different leaders if you want to.